version: 1.10
## package encoding

  `import "encoding"`

## Overview

Package encoding defines interfaces shared by other packages that convert data
to and from byte-level and textual representations. Packages that check for
these interfaces include encoding/gob, encoding/json, and encoding/xml. As a
result, implementing an interface once can make a type useful in multiple
encodings. Standard types that implement these interfaces include time.Time and
net.IP. The interfaces come in pairs that produce and consume encoded data.

## Index

- [type BinaryMarshaler](#BinaryMarshaler)
- [type BinaryUnmarshaler](#BinaryUnmarshaler)
- [type TextMarshaler](#TextMarshaler)
- [type TextUnmarshaler](#TextUnmarshaler)

### Package files
 [encoding.go](//github.com/golang/go/blob/2ea7d3461bb41d0ae12b56ee52d43314bcdb97f9/src/encoding/encoding.go)

<h2 id="BinaryMarshaler">type <a href="//github.com/golang/go/blob/2ea7d3461bb41d0ae12b56ee52d43314bcdb97f9/src/encoding/encoding.go#L8">BinaryMarshaler</a>
    <a href="#BinaryMarshaler">¶</a></h2>
<pre>type BinaryMarshaler interface {
    MarshalBinary() (data []<a href="/builtin/#byte">byte</a>, err <a href="/builtin/#error">error</a>)
}</pre>

BinaryMarshaler is the interface implemented by an object that can marshal
itself into a binary form.

MarshalBinary encodes the receiver into a binary form and returns the result.

<h2 id="BinaryUnmarshaler">type <a href="//github.com/golang/go/blob/2ea7d3461bb41d0ae12b56ee52d43314bcdb97f9/src/encoding/encoding.go#L18">BinaryUnmarshaler</a>
    <a href="#BinaryUnmarshaler">¶</a></h2>
<pre>type BinaryUnmarshaler interface {
    UnmarshalBinary(data []<a href="/builtin/#byte">byte</a>) <a href="/builtin/#error">error</a>
}</pre>

BinaryUnmarshaler is the interface implemented by an object that can unmarshal a
binary representation of itself.

UnmarshalBinary must be able to decode the form generated by MarshalBinary.
UnmarshalBinary must copy the data if it wishes to retain the data after
returning.

<h2 id="TextMarshaler">type <a href="//github.com/golang/go/blob/2ea7d3461bb41d0ae12b56ee52d43314bcdb97f9/src/encoding/encoding.go#L26">TextMarshaler</a>
    <a href="#TextMarshaler">¶</a></h2>
<pre>type TextMarshaler interface {
    MarshalText() (text []<a href="/builtin/#byte">byte</a>, err <a href="/builtin/#error">error</a>)
}</pre>

TextMarshaler is the interface implemented by an object that can marshal itself
into a textual form.

MarshalText encodes the receiver into UTF-8-encoded text and returns the result.

<h2 id="TextUnmarshaler">type <a href="//github.com/golang/go/blob/2ea7d3461bb41d0ae12b56ee52d43314bcdb97f9/src/encoding/encoding.go#L36">TextUnmarshaler</a>
    <a href="#TextUnmarshaler">¶</a></h2>
<pre>type TextUnmarshaler interface {
    UnmarshalText(text []<a href="/builtin/#byte">byte</a>) <a href="/builtin/#error">error</a>
}</pre>

TextUnmarshaler is the interface implemented by an object that can unmarshal a
textual representation of itself.

UnmarshalText must be able to decode the form generated by MarshalText.
UnmarshalText must copy the text if it wishes to retain the text after
returning.

## Subdirectories
- [..](..)
- [ascii85](ascii85/)
- [asn1](asn1/)
- [base32](base32/)
- [base64](base64/)
- [binary](binary/)
- [csv](csv/)
- [gob](gob/)
- [hex](hex/)
- [json](json/)
- [pem](pem/)
- [xml](xml/)
